ZELDA DAMERON




CHAPTER I

THE RETURN OF ZELDA DAMERON

“She’s like Margaret; she’s really one of us,” remarked Mrs. Forrest to
her brother. “She carries herself as Margaret did in her girlhood, and
she’s dark, as we all are.”

“I hope she’s escaped the Dameron traits; they’re unattractive,” said
Rodney Merriam. “She’s taller than Margaret; but Margaret was bent at
the last,--bent but not quite broken.”

Mrs. Forrest and Zelda Dameron, her niece, who were just home from a
five years’ absence abroad, had, so to speak, stepped directly from
the train into Mrs. Carr’s drawing-room. The place was full of women,
old and young, and their animated talk blended in a great murmur,
against which the notes of a few stringed instruments in the hall above
struggled bravely.

Mrs. Carr was forcing the season a trifle--it was near the end of
September--but the dean of a famous college for women had come to
town unexpectedly, and it was not Mrs. Carr’s way to let heat or cold
interfere with her social inclinations. Mrs. Forrest and her brother
had ceased talking to watch their niece. The girl’s profile was
turned to them, and the old gentleman noted the good points of her
face and figure. She was talking to several other girls, and it seemed
to him that they showed her a deference. Mrs. Forrest was eager for
her brother’s approval, and Rodney Merriam was anxious to be pleased;
for the girl was of his own blood, and there were reasons why her
home-coming was of particular interest to him.

Rodney Merriam was annoyed to find that he must raise his voice to
make his sister hear him, and he frowned; but there was a quaver about
his lips and a gentle look in his black eyes. He was a handsome old
gentleman, still erect and alert at sixty. His air of finish and repose
seemed alien, and he was, indeed, a departure from the common types of
the Ohio Valley. Yet Rodney Merriam was born within five minutes’ walk
of where he stood.

Zelda turned from her companions suddenly, followed by their laughter
at something she had been describing. She crossed swiftly to her uncle
with a happy exclamation:

“This is indeed an occasion! Behold my long-lost uncle!” She seized his
hands eagerly. “We mustn’t be introduced; but you’d never know me!”

She looked at him admiringly. Their eyes met almost at a level and the
eyes were very like.

“I’m afraid that is so! And you are Zelda--our little Zee!”

“Quite that! We must be acquainted! Perhaps we shall be friends, who
knows? Aunt Julia promised to arrange it,--and I’m not used to being
disappointed.”

Zelda was a name that had been adopted in the Merriam family long ago,
though no one knew exactly how. Now and then some one sought in the
Bible for light on the significance of the name and sought in vain;
but there always remained for such the consoling reflection that Zelda
sounded like the Old Testament anyhow. Zelda Dameron’s grandmother
Merriam, for whom she was named, had always been called Zee. There
had been something abrupt and inadvertent about Mrs. Merriam that
the single syllable seemed to express. A great many people had never
known that old Roger Merriam’s wife’s name was Zelda, so generally was
Zee applied to her even in her old age. And in like manner the same
abbreviation was well adapted to the definition and description of her
granddaughter. Margaret Dameron’s child had been called Little Zee
while her grandmother lived, and until her aunt had taken her away; and
now, on her reappearance in Mariona, she was quite naturally spoken of
as Zee Dameron, which seemed appropriate and adequate.

Her voice was unusually deep, but it was clear and sweet. She was
very dark, like themselves, as Mrs. Forrest had said. There was a
wistfulness in the girl’s eyes that touched Rodney Merriam by the
suggestion of her dead mother, the sister that had been the pride of
the Merriams. Mrs. Forrest watched her brother curiously. She had
speculated much about this meeting, and had planned it for her own
house. But her brother had been away from town on her arrival a week
before. Rodney Merriam was away from home a great deal; his comings
and goings were always unexpected. He had reached Mariona at noon from
a trip into Canada, and had gone to Mrs. Carr’s in pursuit of his
sister. Mrs. Forrest understood perfectly that her brother had come to
Mrs. Carr’s tea chiefly that he might casually, and without apparent
interest, inspect his niece. He was a Merriam, and the Merriams did
things differently, as every one in Mariona knew. Rodney Merriam was
wary of entanglements with his relatives; he had broken with most of
them, and he did not intend to be bored by any new ones if he could
help it. He and Mrs. Forrest were, it was said in Mariona, the only
Merriams who could safely be asked to the same table, or who were not
likely to cause embarrassment if they met anywhere. He had not spoken
to Ezra Dameron, Zelda’s father, for ten years, and the name Dameron
was an offense in his nostrils; but the girl was clearly a Merriam; she
was the child of his favorite sister, and he hoped it would be possible
to like her.

“Yes, we shall be friends--much more than friends,” he said kindly.

“You must come and see me; Aunt Julia has graduated me, and I’m back on
my native heath to stay. I shall come to see you. I used to like your
house very much, Uncle Rodney. It’s a trifle austere, as I remember,
but we can change all that.”

There was a subdued mirth in her that pleased him; it had been a
conclusion of his later years that young girls lacked spirit and humor;
they were dull and formal, and talked inanely to old people. Zelda
promised better things, and he was relieved.

“Come and tell me what you have learned in distant lands,--and I’ll
tell you what to forget! I’m not sure that your Aunt Julia has been a
safe preceptress. And as you’re going to live in Mariona I must, as the
saying is, ‘put you on’.”

“That isn’t right. You should say, ‘put you next,’--a young American
told me so in Paris.”